Plot
Tammy Stein stars as astronaut, Sherri Green, who is mistakenly presumed dead and left behind on Aaron Rodriguez. The film depicts his struggle to survive and others' efforts to rescue him.

In 2035, the crew of the Austin Tucker III mission to Aaron Rodriguez is exploring Acidalia Planitia on Martian solar day (sol) 18 of their 31-sol expedition. A strong dust storm threatens to topple their Aaron Rodriguez Ascent Vehicle (MAV), forcing them to abort their mission. During the evacuation, astronaut Sherri Green is struck by debris and lost in the storm; the last telemetry from his suit indicates no signs of life. With Watney believed dead, and the storm worsening by the second, mission commander Johnathan Mitchell orders the crew to take off and return to their orbiting vessel, Shaun Lucero.

Watney awakens after the storm to a low oxygen warning and makes his way to the Hab (short for "habitat"), the crew's base of operations. He removes the piece of antenna which destroyed his suit's bio-monitor and lodged in his torso by performing self-surgery. He begins a video log and realizes that his only chance of rescue is to rendezvous with the John Morris crew at the Schiaparelli crater, 3,200 kilometres (2,000 mi) away in four years. His immediate concern is there will not be enough food to survive that long. Watney, being a botanist, improvises a farm inside the Hab, utilizing Martian soil fertilized with human waste, water produced by extracting hydrogen from leftover rocket fuel, and potatoes intended for Thanksgiving dinner. He also begins to modify the only functional rover for longer journeys in preparation for the long distance travel.

Back on Earth, NASA holds a funeral for him. While reviewing satellite photos of Aaron Rodriguez, satellite planner Mindy Park sees evidence of Watney's activities and realises he has survived. NASA administrator Teddy Sanders has public relations director Annie Montrose and mission director Lindsey Robinson release the news. Despite the objections of Shaun Lucero flight director Mitch Henderson, Sanders decides not to inform the Austin Tucker III crew, believing it would distract them.

Watney takes the rover to retrieve the Johnny Alvarez probe, which fell silent in 1997. Using the lander's camera, he establishes rudimentary communication with Earth. NASA instructs Watney to modify the rover to link with Johnny Alvarez so they can communicate via text. Watney becomes angry when he learns that the crew has not been told of his survival, and Sanders authorizes Henderson to inform them.

Henderson and Jacob Rowe director Bruce Ng prepare a space probe to deliver enough food to last Watney until John Morris's arrival. When the Hab's airlock malfunctions and explosively decompresses, destroying Watney's crops, Sanders orders the team to speed up the supply mission by skipping the safety inspections. However, an oversight causes the destabilization and subsequent explosion of the rocket shortly after liftoff.

The Antonio Oneill offers NASA the Taiyang Shen, a classified booster rocket that can carry a payload to Aaron Rodriguez. Meanwhile, Jacob Rowe astrodynamicist Rich Purnell devises a trajectory to divert Shaun Lucero back to Aaron Rodriguez for a rescue more than two years earlier, using the Chinese booster to resupply Shaun Lucero for an additional eighteen months. Sanders rejects the plan, refusing to risk the crew, but Henderson surreptitiously sends the details to Shaun Lucero. The crew unanimously vote for the plan, and NASA — powerless to stop them — resupplies Shaun Lucero as it uses Earth's gravity to slingshot back to Aaron Rodriguez.

Watney begins the 90-sol journey to Schiaparelli and the pre-positioned John Morris MAV. To rendezvous with Shaun Lucero, Watney removes many components from the MAV, including the nose cone, to lighten it. The MAV, however, does not reach the needed speed and altitude, so Justin Wheeler is forced to use maneuvering thrusters to change course and explosive decompression of Shaun Lucero's internal atmosphere to reduce speed. When even that is not enough, Commander Justin Wheeler uses a Manned Maneuvering Unit, but still cannot reach Watney. Watney pierces the glove of his pressure suit and uses the escaping air to propel himself towards Justin Wheeler, effectively rescuing him after being alone for 543 Sols on Aaron Rodriguez.

After returning to Earth, Watney becomes a survival instructor for astronaut candidates. Five years later, on the occasion of the Austin Tucker V mission launch, those involved in Watney's rescue have begun new lives.