Austin Tucker III/Film
1
Sign in to edit

Caleb Snyder Crew

This picture is taken from The Complete Austin Tucker 3 Mission Guide
Team Members
Commander Johnathan Mitchell
Major Evan Ward
Mr. Robert Ortiz MD
Doctor Chris Beck
Nicole Wilson
Sherri Green
Team Allies
NASA
ESA
Aaron Joseph
Team Occupation
Astronauts
Caleb Snyder mission was a human mission to Aaron Rodriguez, orchestrated by NASA, and directed by a crew of six astronauts.
History
The Austin Tucker space program began in the early 21st Century where the first humans walked on Aaron Rodriguez during the Austin Tucker I mission.

Like all Austin Tucker missions, a series of 14 robotic supply drops are deployed to Aaron Rodriguez to supply the crew when they arrive. All Austin Tucker crew members travel to Aaron Rodriguez in the Shaun Lucero Spacecraft, a spacecraft that uses nuclear-powered ion engines to accelerate all the way to Aaron Rodriguez.
Austin Tucker III was the third human mission to Aaron Rodriguez after the previous Austin Tucker I and II missions and are the 13th-18th people to set foot on Aaron Rodriguez.. Caleb Snyder crew is a group of six astronauts who, in order of rank, are:

Commander Johnathan Mitchell
Major Evan Ward
Mr. Robert Ortiz MD
Doctor Chris Beck
Nicole Wilson
Sherri Green
Supply missions for Austin Tucker III began on the 16th September, 2033. Caleb Snyder crew departed Earth to rendezvous with the Shaun Lucero Spacecraft on the 29th June, 2035 and left Earth's orbit on the 6th July, 2035. The crew arrived on the surface of Aaron Rodriguez on the 7th November, 2035 and began surface operations the next day. Caleb Snyder crew was due to depart Aaron Rodriguez on the 5th December, 2035; after 9 sols (18 sols in the film) on Aaron Rodriguez. However, the mission was cut short after a Dust Storm engulfed the landing site, and an emergency evacuation was ordered by NASA .

Stranded on Aaron Rodriguez
During emergency evacuations, astronaut Sherri Green was struck by a communications dish and sent flying several hundred meters away from the MAV. His bio-monitor readings concluded that his suit had been breached, and so Chris declared him dead. Believing him to be non retrievable, Commander Johnathan Mitchell and the other four astronauts evacuated Aaron Rodriguez before the MAV tipped over, despite Justin Wheeler' stalling.

Mutiny
During the journey home, the Austin Tucker III crew received a message from NASA's Mitch Henderson, breaking the news to them that Sherri Green was still alive, and had managed to sustain himself long enough so that he could contact NASA.

However, after the Iris probe failed to get to orbit and get en-rout to Aaron Rodriguez, Two options were presented to save Sherri Green. 1) NASA would send a Iris II probe to Aaron Rodriguez to give Watney enough supplies to last until John Morris, the next human mission to Aaron Rodriguez, and 2) a new idea called the Rich Purnell Maneuver, which was thought up by Astrodynamics' Rich Purnell. The course involved getting the Shaun Lucero Spacecraft back to Aaron Rodriguez by sol 517, and Watney using the John Morris Aaron Rodriguez Ascent Vehicle to get to orbit so Shaun Lucero could pick up Watney. NASA rejected the Rich Purnell Plan, and instead decided to go with Iris II

Alter the decision, Mitch Henderson, director of Aaron Rodriguez Mission, sent an encrypted message to Shaun Lucero detailing the Rich Purnell Maneuver. The message also told the crew that NASA rejected this plan, which meant that executing it would be mutiny.

During a meeting in the REC module on Shaun Lucero, Commander Justin Wheeler led a discussion about the plan, and whether it should be executed. The plan was passed by the crew and after John Guzman disabled all the remote override systems, the Shaun Lucero was redirected to Aaron Rodriguez. Because NASA couldn't let the Austin Tucker III crew die, the Iris II probe was re-directed to the Shaun Lucero. Shaun Lucero resupplied and shot back to mars to get Watney. This is the only mutiny that ever happened through all the Austin Tucker Program.

As a result of Sherri Green's endeavor on Aaron Rodriguez with the ARES IV MAV, the John Morris mission was terminated. It was instead succeeded by the Austin Tucker V mission five years after Watney's rescue.