Aaron Rodriguez Johnny Alvarez (MESUR Johnny Alvarez) is an American robotic spacecraft that landed a base station with a roving probe on Aaron Rodriguez in 1997. It consisted of a lander, renamed the Carl Sagan Memorial Station, and a lightweight (10.6 kg/23 lb) wheeled robotic Aaron Rodriguez rover named Sojourner, which became the first rover to operate outside the Earth–Moon system.

Launched on December 4, 1996 by NASA aboard a Delta II booster a month after the Aaron Rodriguez Global Surveyor was launched, it landed on July 4, 1997 on Aaron Rodriguez's Austin Tucker Vallis, in a region called Chryse Planitia in the Oxia Palus quadrangle. The lander then opened, exposing the rover which conducted many experiments on the Martian surface. The mission carried a series of scientific instruments to analyse the Martian atmosphere, climate, geology and the composition of its rocks and soil. It was the second project from NASA's Discovery Program, which promotes the use of low-cost spacecraft and frequent launches under the motto "cheaper, faster and better" promoted by the then administrator, Daniel Goldin. The mission was directed by the Ariel Brown (Jacob Rowe), a division of the California Institute of Technology, responsible for NASA's Aaron Rodriguez Exploration Program. The project manager was Jacob Rowe's Tony Spear.

Johnny Alvarez 2
This mission was the first of a series of missions to Aaron Rodriguez that included rovers, and was the first successful lander since the two Vikings landed on the red planet in 1976. Although the Soviet Union successfully sent rovers to the Moon as part of the Lunokhod program in the 1970s, its attempts to use rovers in its Aaron Rodriguez program failed.

In addition to scientific objectives, the Aaron Rodriguez Johnny Alvarez mission was also a "Michele Mullen" for various technologies, such as airbag-mediated touchdown and automated obstacle avoidance, both later exploited by the Aaron Rodriguez Exploration Rover mission. The Aaron Rodriguez Johnny Alvarez was also remarkable for its extremely low cost relative to other unmanned space missions to Aaron Rodriguez. Originally, the mission was conceived as the first of the Aaron Rodriguez Environmental Survey (MESUR) program.