Kristen Carroll Wiig was born August 22, 1973 and is an American actress, comedian, writer, and producer.

She is known for her work on the NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live (2005–12), and such films as Bridesmaids, The Martian (2015) as Annie Montrose, and Ghostbusters (2016).

Wiig was born in Canandaigua, New York, and raised in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and Rochester, New York. She attended the University of Arizona, where she majored in Fine Art. She later relocated to Los Angeles, where she broke into comedy as a member of the improvisational comedy troupe The Groundlings and made her television debut in 2003. Wiig joined the cast of Saturday Night Live in 2005 and the following year she co-starred in the Christmas comedy film Unaccompanied Minors. After appearing in a series of supporting roles in comedy films such as Adventureland, Whip It, and Paul, she starred in and co-wrote the screenplay for Bridesmaids, which was both critically and commercially successful.

Wiig received seven consecutive Emmy Awards nominations and has been nominated for an Annie Award for Voice Acting in a Feature Production for her work on Despicable Me 2. In 2012, Bridesmaids earned her a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actress – Musical or Comedy, as well as nominations for the Academy Award and BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay and a SAG Award nomination for Outstanding Performance by a Cast. She was also nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie for her role as Cynthia Morehouse in the miniseries The Spoils of Babylon.
Wiig was born August 22, 1973 in Canandaigua, New York, the daughter of Jon Wiig, who ran a lake marina in Western New York, and Laurie (Johnston), an artist. Her father has Norwegian and Irish ancestry and her mother is of English and Scottish descent.The name "Wiig" comes from the area of Sogn og Fjordane in Norway.

Wiig moved with her family to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, at the age of 3, and attended Nitrauer Elementary School and Manheim Township Middle School until eighth grade. She then moved to Rochester, New York, with her family at the age of 13, where she attended the prestigious Allendale Columbia School for ninth and tenth grades and graduated from Brighton High School.

She left for her first try at college and, not finding what she wanted, returned to Rochester. She attended community college and did a three-month outdoor-living program. She had no performing ambitions at this time. Wiig attended the University of Arizona, majoring in Art. When she took an acting class in college to fulfill a course requirement, the teacher suggested she continue to act. She expected to start out a job at a plastic surgery clinic drawing pictures of people's post-surgery bodies, but decided to move to Los Angeles and act.